This page provides answers to some of the most frequently-asked questions (FAQ) about WeeWX.

#### Getting started
<ul>
<li><a href="#i-need-help---where-do-i-go-for-support">I need help - where do I go for support?</a></li>
<li><a href="#what-weather-station-should-i-buy">What weather station should I buy?</a></li>
<li><a href="#is-my-hardware-supported-by-weewx">Is my hardware supported by WeeWX?</a></li>
<li><a href="#is-weewx-hard-to-install-and-use">Is WeeWX hard to install and use?</a></li>
<li><a href="#what-skills-do-i-need-to-run-weewx">What skills do I need to run WeeWX?</a></li>
<li><a href="#how-do-i-learn-the-things-i-need-to-run-weewx">How do I learn the things I need to run WeeWX?</a></li>
</ul>

#### Registering your station
<ul>
<li><a href="">Should I register my station?</a></li>
<li><a href="">Can I register without specifying an Internet-facing website?</a></li>
<li><a href="">How do I unregister?</a></li>
</ul>

#### Installing and upgrading
<ul>
<li><a href="">Which method should I use to install WeeWX?</a></li>
<li><a href="">wget: command not found</a></li>
<li><a href="">gpg: command not found</a></li>
<li><a href="">gpg: no valid OpenPGP data found</a></li>
<li><a href="#how-should-i-answer-the-questions-from-apt-when-i-upgrade-weewx">How should I answer the questions from apt when I upgrade WeeWX?</a></li>
<li><a href="#how-should-i-answer-the-questions-from-yum-or-dnf-when-i-upgrade-weewx">How should I answer the questions from yum or dnf when I upgrade WeeWX?</a></li>
</ul>

#### Using the command-line
* [How do I run weewxd directly in order to diagnose problems?](#how-do-i-run-weewxd-directly-in-order-to-diagnose-problems)
* [Where do I find the log?](#where-do-i-find-the-log)
* [Why do I get "command not found" when I type WeeWX commands?](#why-do-i-get-command-not-found-when-i-type-weewx-commands)
* [Why do I get "permission denied"?](#why-do-i-get-permission-denied)
* [SyntaxError: invalid syntax](#syntaxerror-invalid-syntax)
* [ModuleNotFoundError: No module named xxx](#modulenotfounderror-no-module-named-xxx)
* [Where are the web pages generated by WeeWX?](#where-are-the-web-pages-generated-by-weewx)
* [How do I fix obviously incorrect data from my station?](#how-do-i-fix-obviously-incorrect-data-from-my-station)



## Getting started

### I need help - where do I go for support?
* read the rest of the questions in this page!
* read the WeeWX documentation (https://weewx.com/docs)
* read the guides in the WeeWX wiki (https://github.com/weewx/weewx/wiki)
* read the [instructions](Help!-Posting-to-weewx-user) about posting to the `weewx-user` group
* post your question(s) to the `weewx-user` group (https://groups.google.com/group/weewx-user)
* if you find any of this confusing, please [let us know](https://groups.google.com/group/weewx-user) so that we can make it better!

### What weather station should I buy?

This depends on your needs.  How much can you spend?  How much can you spend each year?  How much time are you willing to spend on maintenance?  What do you want to measure?  Will the station be located in a harsh environment (e.g., maritime conditions, extreme heat, extreme cold)?  Will the station be located remotely, or somewhere you can service it easily?  Do you need a completely off-grid solution, a station tied to the internet, or some combination of these?  What power source is available?  What network and computer resources are available?  How often do you need to see the data?

Take a look at the 'hardware' section of the [WeeWX station map](https://weewx.com/stations.html) to see what other WeeWX users are using.

There is a [wxforum board](https://www.wxforum.net/index.php?board=71.0) dedicated to this question.

### Is my hardware supported by WeeWX?

WeeWX itself includes support for a small number of weather station models. However, many, many more weather stations, as well as other types of hardware, are supported by user-supplied `drivers` - extensions to the WeeWX core.

The stations supported in WeeWX core are listed in the [hardware guide](https://weewx.com/docs/5.0/hardware/drivers/).

Many more weather stations are listed at the [supported hardware page](http://weewx.com/hardware.html).  There you will see pictures and model numbers.  As you browse the devices on that page, remember that many devices are sold under different model numbers, by different vendors. Support for these are provided through `drivers` that you must add after you install WeeWX.

To see many of the additional drivers, browse the [*Drivers* section](https://github.com/weewx/weewx/wiki#drivers) of the WeeWX wiki.

### Is WeeWX hard to install and use?

The answer to this depends on you. Many tens of thousands of people have installed WeeWX. Some of those people have years of computer experience, but many of them have little or no experience with computers, or command-line programs.

WeeWX is a command-line application, which means that people used to 'point-and-click' interfaces frequently have some growing pains. Using a command-line application requires some investment of your time and energy to reach a minimal level of expertise. However, the skills you learn to install and run WeeWX are applicable to many other systems.

### What skills do I need to run WeeWX?

At a minimum you must:
* be willing to type
* understand what files and directories are, as well as how to navigate and view them
* be able to open, edit, and save a text file
* understand how to start and stop processes
* have a basic understanding of [permissions](faq-permission-denied), and when/if to use 'sudo'

There are many instructions and guides that will help you, but you must still think.

### How do I learn the things I need to run WeeWX?

There are *dozens* of free Linux introductory courses available on Internet.   The [Introduction to Linux](https://www.edx.org/course/introduction-to-linux) is a free, self-paced course on edx.org, which has been taken by hundreds of thousands of people.  Or try the [Linux Journey](https://linuxjourney.com/)

There are many os-specific forums on Reddit that are Linux, Linux administration, and operating system specific.
* [I am new to Linux, what should a beginner know?](https://www.reddit.com/r/linux4noobs/comments/10kz0xh/i_am_new_to_linux_what_should_a_beginner_know/)
* [A good guide to learn Linux from zero](https://www.reddit.com/r/linuxquestions/comments/125dn50/a_good_guide_to_learn_linux_from_zero/)

A few minutes of searching will turn up tutorials specific to your operating system of choice, whether that is MacOS, FreeBSD, Rocky, Debian, Mint, Ubuntu, Redhat, SUSE, etc.


## Registering your station

### Should I register my station?

WeeWX has an *optional* capability to register your station with the `weewx.com` server. Registered stations appear on the [map](https://weewx.com/stations.html). The registration includes only basic information about a station, including the location, hardware type, driver, WeeWX version, and Python version. We use this information to answer questions like "how many sites use this driver" and "how many sites are on the current weewx version" and the like, and to consider which configurations are used so much (or little) to merit higher or lower support levels.

Registration is *not* required.  In fact, registration is disabled by default; you must take action to register your station.

To register your station, see the instructions in the [`station_registry`](http://www.weewx.com/docs/usersguide.htm#station_registry) section of the User's Guide.

### Can I register without specifying an Internet-facing website?

Yes, but... While you have to specify *something* for the `station_url`, it does not need to actually resolve to a real, public-facing URL. If you use a private URL, this will result in you providing your registration data (thank you), put your station on the map, but the link to your station on the map will be broken.

### How do I unregister?

Simply disable the registration setting then restart WeeWX. Systems that refresh their data are dropped from the map in about a month.


## Installing and upgrading

### Which method should I use to install WeeWX?

There are three ways to install WeeWX: the packaged approach, the Python approach, and the run-from-source approach.

The packaged approach (DEB/RPM packages using `apt`, `yum/dnf`, or `zypper`) is the fastest, easiest way to get started with WeeWX. However, this will work only if you use one of the operating systems for which these packages have been created.

The Python approach (`pip` in WeeWX V5, or `setup.py` in WeeWX V4) will work on every operating system. However, this approach requires you to install additional pieces to integrate WeeWX completely into your system. This approach is typically used by those who want to do a lot of customization, or by those who use an operating system for which there is no DEB/RPM package.

The run-from-source approach (using `git`) works on every operating system. However, this approach requires the most work to integrate WeeWX into your system. This approach is typically used by developers, or by those who need to fit WeeWX into systems with little memory or storage.

The Installation section of the User's Guide has more details.


### wget: command not found

The `wget` program is used to download the keys needed when you first configure a computer to trust `weewx.com`.  If your system does not have `wget`, install it like this:

```
# debian systems
sudo apt install wget

# redhat systems
sudo yum install wget
```

Another option is to use `curl` instead of `wget`


### gpg: command not found

The `gpg` program is used to download the keys needed when you first configure a computer to trust `weewx.com`.  If your system does not have `gpg`, install it like this:

```
# debian systems
sudo apt install gnupg

# redhat systems
sudo yum install gnupg
```

### gpg: no valid OpenPGP data found

If it has been awhile since you updated your Debian-like system, then the keys that it uses to trust other systems might be out of date.  You can upgrade your system, including the keys, like this:

```
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get upgrade -y
```

For details, see [problems downloading the apt repo key](faq-apt-key-problems).


### How should I answer the questions from `apt` when I upgrade WeeWX?

When you upgrade WeeWX on a Debian-like system, the installer will ask you whether you want to keep your existing configuration, or use the latest configuration.  In most cases, you should choose to keep your existing configuration; the WeeWX developers work hard to ensure that new versions of WeeWX are backward-compatible with configurations and skins.

Whether you choose to keep your configuration or the new one, both options will be saved. So if you change your mind later, or if you want to compare, you can do so.

More detail can be found in the [apt update guide](faq-questions-apt-get-asks).


### How should I answer the questions from `yum` or `dnf` when I upgrade WeeWX?

When you upgrade WeeWX on a Redhat-like or SUSE system, the installer will ask you whether you want to keep your existing configuration, or use the latest configuration.  In most cases, you should choose to keep your existing configuration; the WeeWX developers work hard to ensure that new versions of WeeWX are backward-compatible with configurations and skins.

Whether you choose to keep your configuration or the new one, both options will be saved. So if you change your mind later, or if you want to compare, you can do so.

More detail can be found in the [yum update guide](yum-update-guide).

## Using the command-line, Python, and WeeWX

### How do I run `weewxd` directly in order to diagnose problems?

In many cases you can simply type `weewxd` to start WeeWX.  This will run `weewxd` in the foreground, and it will print data from the weather station to the screen.  To stop it, type `ctrl-c` (press the `c` key while you hold down the `control` key).
```
weewxd
```
If you used `pip` to install WeeWX, then you must activate the Python virtual environment before you start `weewxd`, something like this:
```
source ~/weewx-env/bin/activate
weewxd
```

In some cases you might have to run `weewxd` with root permissions in order to read data from the station, write data to the database, or write the reports.  If so, the use `sudo weewxd` instead of just `weewxd`.


### Where do I find the log?

Whether you run it directly or in the background, `weewxd` emits log messages to indicate what it is doing.  These messages go to the *system logger*, which you can then view using tools that come with your operating system.

On Linux systems, the system logger saves messages in either `/etc/syslog` (Debian, Ubuntu, etc) or `/var/log/messages` (Redhat, Fedora, etc).  On MacOS and most BSD systems, the system logger saves messages in `/var/log/syslog`. In WeeWX V5, if you installed WeeWX using a DEB/RPM package, or if you used the system integration script on a `pip` installation, the WeeWX messages will be saved to `/var/log/weewx/weewxd.log` separate from other system messages.

To view the log messages, use the tools that come with your system.  On most systems, you can use `head` or `tail` to look at the first or last messages, respectively. On some systems, use `journalctl` to view the log messages. You might have to preface the commands with `sudo`, since many systems make the log readable only by admin users.

For more details and examples, see the guide about [logging](view-logs)


### Why do I get "command not found" when I type WeeWX commands?

If you type a WeeWX command and you see `command not found`, that probably means that the command is not in your `PATH`.
```
$ sudo wee_extension --list
sudo: wee_extension: command not found
```

First, be sure that you are typing the right command.  In WeeWX V5 there are only two: `weewxd` and `weectl`.  In WeeWX V4 there are a few, including `weewxd`, `wee_config`, `wee_extension`, `wee_database`, and `wee_reports`.

If you installed WeeWX using `pip`, be sure to activate the Python virtual environment before you invoke a WeeWX command.
```
$ source ~/weewx-venv/bin/activate
$ weectl extension --list
```

If you installed WeeWX V4 using `setup.py`, try using the full path to the WeeWX command.
```
$ sudo /home/weewx/bin/wee_extension --list
```

See the Wiki article [understanding paths](Understanding-paths)


### Why do I get "permission denied"?

There are a few situations where you might encounter "permission denied", including:

* starting/stopping `weewxd` when it is running as a system daemon
* viewing the system log
* modifying a configuration file or skin
* installing an extension
* reading/writing data to the database
* reading/writing data to a USB or serial device

In many cases, you can get the permissions that you need by putting a `sudo` at the beginning of the command. Invoking `sudo` executes the command as the `root` user. This process is called "privilege escalation".
```
# run the `systemctl` program as the logged-in user:
systemctl start weewx
# run the `systemctl` program as the `root` user:
sudo systemctl start weewx
```

Another option is to add your username to the list of administrative users on the computer. In this approach, you add a user to a group.  For example, adding the `jackhandy` user to the `weewx` group would let the `jackhandy` user work with files in the `weewx` group:
```
sudo usermod -a -G weewx jackhandy
```
Another example: adding the `pi` user to the `adm` group would let the `pi` user see and modify files that are available to the `adm` group but not to the rest of the world.
```
sudo usermod -a -G adm pi
```

See the Wiki article [understanding permissions](Understanding-permissions)


### SyntaxError: invalid syntax

There are many things that could cause this Python error.  It might be as simple as a typographic error in code, or it could result from attempting to run Python2 code with a Python3 interpreter.

See the Wiki article [python errors](faq-python-error)


### ModuleNotFoundError: No module named xxx

This is a Python error that arises when Python is unable to find code (a Python 'module').  Perhaps the most common reason for this is if a Python module has not been installed.  If this is the case, all you have to do is install the missing module.

The error might also arise if the Python code is not invoked as the author intended it.  If this is the case, you might be able to fix it by setting the PYTHONPATH so that it includes the missing module.

See the Wiki article about [Python module not found](PYTHONPATH-and-ModuleNotFoundError)


### Where are the web pages generated by WeeWX?

WeeWX does not generate any reports until it has received data, so you might just have to wait.  A typical station will emit an "archive record" every 5 minutes, but if your station is configured for a 30 minute archive interval, you will have a considerably longer wait.  Or you can shorten the archive interval.

The location of the pages depends on the configuration:

| configuration | location                 |
|---------------|--------------------------|
| DEB/RPM       | /var/www/html/weewx      |
| pip           | ~/weewx-data/public_html |
| setup.py      | /home/weewx/public_html  |

You can see the web pages by navigating to the directory above.

To see the web pages from a different computer, you might want to install a web server.  See the Wiki article about [web servers](Configure-a-web-server-(Apache,-NGINX-or-lighttpd))


### How do I fix obviously incorrect data from my station?

For existing data, use a database tool, possibly with the WeeWX database tool, to manipulate values in the database. See the Wiki article [cleaning up old data](Cleaning-up-old-'bad'-data).

For new data, use `StdCalibrate` to apply a correction, or use `StdQC` to filter the values from your station.

Here is an example. In this case the station can emit a lightning distance reading yet show a lightning strike count of zero. The example below ensures that lightning distance is not recorded unless there is a corresponding strike count during that interval.
```
[StdCalibrate]    
    [[Corrections]]
        lightning_distance = lightning_distance if Atlas_stike_count > 0 else None
```

Here is an example that is included in the default WeeWX configuration. In this case, the values for humidity are limited to 0-100, even if the sensor emits values outside that range.
```
[StdQC]
    [[MinMax]]
        outHumidity = 0, 100
        inHumidity = 0, 100
```
